https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/pdf/10.1146/annurev-astro-082812-141031

TERMINOLOGY

Hubble diagram: a graph recession velocity against distance to us.

kozai-lidov mechanism: when you have perturbation of a third onto a binary system, causes changes in the inclination and 
eccentricity of the orbits 

solid body rotation: when all parts of the body maintain a constant distance from the axis of rotation

recurrent novae: nova with more than one outburst within the past century, occur irregularly

hard xrays: xrays with high energy (5-10 keV)

soft xrays: xrays with low energies

Wolf-rayet stars: really hot stars that used to be either red/blue supergiant, really luminous but most of their light is
in UV band so they dont look that bright. strong stellar winds,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INTRODUCTION:

SNe 1a are being used to determine the evolution of the the dark energy equation of state

because we don't know which projector system is correct, this could affect the calculation of cosmological parameters
as SNe 1a are used distance markers

As SNe 1a give off lots of KE, they can influence the movement of gases in interstellar and intergalactic medium
this can affect star formation and galaxy evolution

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
basic physics section

this paper mentions that SNe 1a have no hydrogen or helium lines, but aren't DD characterised by their helium signatures?
The SD scenario is constrained by hydrogen accretion, but their is no mention of Helium constraints in other papers.
EDIT: there are helium constraints too, dont forget that when hydrogen and helium are accreted onto the WD,
it gets burnt and converted into carbon

some carbon and oxygen in SNe 1a are unburnt

SINGLE DEGENERATE MODELS:
optically thick wind proposed to originate from the accreting WD, driven by the luminosity from nuclear burning on its surface
-this wind however might complicate the dynamics of accretion and roche lobe overflow

when accretion is slow, you have a layer of unburnt/cold degenerate hydrogen forming on the outermost layer of the accretor
which can diffuse into the CO core

when accretion rate is too high, hydrogen ignited and mass is retained, but after several thousand H explosions, the He ash
is ignited and almost all of the accreted matter is blown off


COLLISIONAL DEGENERATE MODELS:
head on collisions of WD, thought to occur in dense stellar clusters

To match observed number of SNe1a, thought to occur in dense stellar environments where you have a triple system, 2WD and a
a low mass star orbiting around. this configuration causes Kozai-lidov oscillations in the eccentricity of the orbits
in the binary leading to faster release of GW and quicker merger time

DOUBLE DETONATION MODELS
rotating WD can be super chandrasekhar in mass, as the rotation adds stability?

these rotating WD can also delay explosions, or not explode at all, as carbon wouldnt be ignited even after the donor has given up
all of its mass. this would effectively erase the existence of the binary system: spin up/spin down scenario

solid body rotation supports up to 1.47 solar masses, so solid body rotation would not be enough to erase binary information

differentially rotating body was proposed, this would support up to 2 solar masses. It is not clear whether this is viable though 
as some argue that this would just become rigid body rotation after baroclinic instabilities (dont get what this is)

but hachisu argues that baroclinic instabilities probably wont happen


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUPERNOVA PHASES
EARLY PHASE, PEAK PHASE-aborption spectra as light is passin through the dense ejecta , you will see
spectra of the other parts of the exploded star LATE PHASE- ejecta has expanded out more
and so we can see emission lines from the core of the star, which is where iron emission spectra can be seen

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
linking theory and observation

why are binary population synthesis calculations important?
binary population synthesis important because it evolves a collection of stars and tells us the end state
this can then tell us how many of are likely to explode via supernova through a specific channel as well
as important info about delay time distributions

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
evidence from observations

How can observation help identify a projector system?
10^7 SNe1a occur a hubble time per galaxy so a viable progenitor system should be clearly visible 
a way of identifying a binary system is through novae, happen much frequently

why are recurrent novae a potential projenitor system?
recurrent novae result in a WD that actually increases in mass, such that the chandrasekhar mass will be reached, but this
is debated, some believe that the amount of ejected matter is much higher than previously calculated

QUESTION: are recurrent novae an actual projector system or are they just a phase that SD projenitor systems go through
to each chandrasekhar mass?

but some say that because there isnt very many of them, it isnt a potential progenitor system. However its likely 
that some recurrent novae have been misidentified as classical novae, so perhaps there are enough?

For recurrent novae:
higher the WD mass, lower the mass needed for ignition
higher the accretion rate, lower the mass needed for ignition
so the amount of ignitions occuring can tell you information about the binary system

what are the observational pieces of evidence implying high WD mass?
-hard x ray emission
-large accretion rate (higher gravity)

do recurrent novae increase mass growth rate?


supersoft xray sources:

what are the sources of transient supersoft x ray sources?
In the models proposed by Hachisu et al 1999 they showed that SDS have a recurrent novae phase where supersoft xrays
are emitted when the accretion rate start growing. this higher accretion rate allows higher temperatures and so
degeneracy of the hydrogen layers are lifted and you get stable burning. But this event is transcient.

proto DD systems (when only the first WD has formed) also give off ssx but they are shorter in duration than in the
SD case 



What do persistent supersoft xray sources tell us?
they tell us that perhaps you have a hot WD in close orbit with a non degenerate star system, as these give off
super soft xrays when hydrogen is burnt to helium on the WD surface---point for SD system?

BUT not all supersoft persistent x ray sources are from the single degenerate scenario

Optically thick wind happening in SD scenario can result in matter collecting around the WD creating an optically thick
photosphere, reprocessing SSX into UV radiation. this may make some people mistake WD's for OB stars which would have a
similar effective temperature






