https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/aad55b/pdf

terminology

spectral line blanketing: when lines all mold together to form a continuum where no specific elements can be identified 

tidal locking: when bodies are orbiting each other and one or both show the other or each other the same face

tidal heating: when a body disapates some of its rotational and orbital energy through heat. the heat is directed towards its own surface and interior and so
the internal energy of the body increases.

runaway stars: stars travelling really fast relative to the interstellar medium

radial velocity: velocity component along the line of sight of the observer

gd492- another hypervelocity wd star

posterior probability: probability that some hypothesis is true given some revelant events



!----------------------------------------------------------
abstract

they looked at a bunch of high velocity stars seen in the Gaia DR2 data and found 7 really fast stars, three of them are confirmed to have been wd companions 
in pre SN systems


!intro

models that require growth of the primary first have convective core carbon burning causing deflagration and then detonation. 
this is the case for DD and SD scenario

no conclusive companion has been seen for the sds. for the d6 scenario some guy looked for blue white dwarfs and found none, this might be because the wd have 
cooled and so they would look different and more like typical wd.

in sn 1ax there are surviving wd primary but the velocity of these are much lower, less than hyper velocity

section2, motivation and properties of surviving companions-----------------------------------------------------------------------

mass transfer can either be stable or unstable, when mass ratio between secondary and primary >0.2 we have no accretion disk formation which means angular momentum 
is transferred inefficiently. generally having more angular momentum contributes to stability so we have unstable mass transfer in this case.
if the mass transfer was super eddington then it would be unstable anyway.

if the mass transfer was stable, the acculimation of hydrogen and helium layer on the primary would lead to nova like events and so the mass transfer would become 
unstable. therefore it is assumed that any DD system that produces a sne ia undergoes unstable mass transfer.

in the ordinary DD we have unstable mass transfer to form a merger reminant which exploded 10**4 yrs later, but in the D6 model 
the explosion occurs before merger

surviving companion flys away at orbital velocity just before explosion

tidal heating can increase the companion wd luminosity by a lot, but it doesnt go very deep within the star and so energy is lost over a shorter timescale
the same argument can be applied to energy given to the companion during the supernova explosion through companion ejecta interaction.

study by shen and schwab found that the nickel (has high entropy) deposited on the companion wd surface will be fully ionised and so it doesnt decay via standard bound electron 
captures until some recombination occurs during cooling---this can affect the luminosity of the white dwarf.

the nickel envelope captured by the secondary experiences delayed nuclear reaction rates. Only this envelope is in this state and so increased luminosity as a result
is only significant for a few centruries.

surface abundances-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ni envelope produces a wind that removes some of the captured ejecta, but some of it should remain.

No hydrogen is expected on the surface as it should have been accreted onto the primary ~1000 yr prior to SN explosion. 
The study expects only Helium or carbon and oxygen in the atmosphere are these shouldnt experience  gravitational settling.

runaway velocities of co wd (~2200 km/s) are the greatest as the runaway velocity depends on stellar radius and mass, CO white dwarfs maximise the these two categories 
relative to He wd, MS and core helium burning stars 

estimated number of runaways--------------------------------------------------------------------------

gaia data can only look for wd up to 1kpc based on rough calculations of old cooling white dwarfs, or white dwarfs tht have been reheated up by SN that 
have happened in the past 2000 yr (historical SN)

the paper discusses whether wd would appear redder as "fe group elements would shift the spectral energy distribution towards the red end"
and so the wd wouldn't appear on the typical cooling track---stars like this have been found by the authors 


spectroscopic follow up---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
found no hydrogen or helium in the atmospheres of these hypervelocity white dwarfs
found strong features of calcium oxygen carbon magnesium and effective temp of ~8000K

d6-1 high radial velocity but d6-2 and d6-3 have low radial velocity (smaller than hyper) and high proper motion so the study suggested that these 
stars were close by and faint and the parallax measurements which outputted the radial velocity had large systematic errors.

posterior velocity deistributions and orbital solutions section------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
found that the hyper velocity couldnt have come from the galactic center where the fast stars are. this is because they are unbound and their orbits dont 
coinside with the galatic center

colour magnitude diagram and possible interpretation------------------------------
looked at the wd on the HR diagram. they have radii in between white dwarfs and main sequence stars ~ subwarf type stars
they know its not for example a helium rich subdwarf from SN Ia because these have much lower velocities based on rlof calculations of final orbital speed

three star systems can explain the velocity that gd492 has but cannot explain how d6-1,2,3 are so fast. ken shen thinks that these hypervelocity wd
were survivors of recent SN which is why they don't look normal, they havent had enough time to go back to being normal looking white dwarfs

the paper hypothesises that the SN Ia must have given the star enough thermal energy to lift the degeneracy in the outer layers of the wd which is why
the radius might look much larger-thermal bloating? d6 simulation suggests that this just happens because nickel has been captured by the wd and its not 
not degenerate so it forms an envelope around the star

paper suggests that maybe some of the d6 companion stars have just cooled to form normal looking white dwarfs that are too dim to see. this is why there 
isnt very many hypervelocity surviving companion candidates

Also suggests that d6 survivors might look like US 708 as they attempt to get back to the regular cooling track

D6-2’s Association with SN Remnant G70.0–21.5------------------------------------------------------------
they tried to use the orbital solutions of d6-1,2,3 and gd492 but only found that d6-2 intersects with a SN reminant. the article assurrs us that this is doesnt 
mean that d6-1,3 and gd492 have orgins tied away from SN Ia as reminants can disspate into the interstellar medium within 1000-100,000 years 

also H-alpha imaging in the regions surrounding the stars is of low quality so just because we dnt see a reminant doesnt mean that it isnt there 

SNR g70.0-21.5 lies away from the galactic plane so they conclused it was a type Ia sn reminant. this region is populated by old stars 
and Type Ia SN can occur in all stellar populations unlike type core collapse SN. But to be more certain, more imaging  
of the reminant is needed to find out the chemical abundances, as these differ depending on the type of SN.

there wasnt an exact allignment with the center of SNR G70.0–21.5 and d6-2 but this is okay given that first the SNR is old and so its shape and size has been
influenced by the surrounding inhomogenous interstellar medium. Also, the SNR is assymmetric which makes finding its center quite difficult

conclusions--------------------------
they think that there may be d6 companion stars in close SNR like tycho but they might look like other non-d6 stars due to their greater luminosity
got to page 9 second column

