abstract--specific, no worthless generality like "differences between such and such are analysed and discussed". what are the differences?
should be very dense with content, no citations or references to other shit as its likely that the abstract will be seen by itself on a website 
--main objectives
--methods used and summary of results
--what was concluded from this

introduction--say the common ground, break it with contradiction/hole in the literature leaving the reader ancipating a response. this leads to papers purpose
--dont start intro with a very obvious statement like "tornados cause death and distruction.." unless you will prove the statement is false
--what the paper will and will not address is also important in the introduction
--personal motivation for writing might also be nice to include here 
--last paragraph of intro should summarise the papers structure 

background/literature synethesis section- like a textbook for the reader. analyse the stuff we know, are they true? are they false? why?
look at table 4.5 on page 38 for a check list of things you need to consider
--could be part of the introduction or you could have your own sections addressing this 

you can discuss background/literature synethesis stuff in other sections, say some piece of knowledge is important in section 6, talking about it at the 
start might not be the best way going about this

methods section: write anything necessary to duplicate the experiment.dont include shit that didnt work

results section:start with an overview of your results describing what they are. dont include everything you did, only the things that worked that 
are also relevent

discussion section: this is where you:
explore alternative interpretations of the data,
extrapolate the meaning of the data for the audience
talk about outliers
talk about things that are unresolved by your data, any questions it raises for example
refer back to introduction, did yu answer the unresolved issue? if not, why not?
if your data disagrees with anyone elses, discuss why
talk about the limitations of your results i.e limitations of assumptions

conclusions/summary section: where does the research leave us? where does it lead us? discussion of future work should be done when you have something specific
in mind. what were some questions that you wish you could have answerd but could not or did not?

acknowledgements: people who helped you with revisions formally or informally, data providers, funders

scientific writing vs literac writing:
scientific writing must be clear,true(as far as you know),not have logical inconsistencies

present data first before making inferences and deductions from it to form a logical flow of argument

each paragraph should have one theme only which is explored, when moving onto another theme, have a different paragraph. guide the reader carefully through the 
arguements

present old information before the new information in a sentence, the next sentence has the new information as the old information so that new information
can be introduced. this creates coherence, for an example see page 69 of eloquent science book

when doing inumeration, dont include the -ly as in firstly secondly, just use first, second etc.


